all right so hello and welcome to the
ipfs weekly call today is Monday July 6
2020 my name is Derek and I'm your host
for the month of July so this week we
have Joanne tunas with us to present his
work on ipfs testfit very nice to have
you with us draw you're gonna want to
take it from you yeah yeah sure so ok
Jimmy's working yes so today I'm going
to speak to you about a byproduct of our
master cheese's which has been the ipfs
testbed and so a little bit about me I'm
John tunes I'm a software engineer at
well the software engineering
consultancy and I was a master student
that technically but I've successfully
finished my master cheese's and again
this is a byproduct of that and there's
my end all over there and if anyone
wants to chat so let's get started and
previously I don't know if everyone
that's here was acquainted with it but I
was working on a beautiful subsystem
focus on reliability persistence and
deliver guarantees and that is forecast
but while we were working on it we
eventually went on a problem which is we
wanted to confirm that our system
actually performed as we wished and so
we need to test it essentially and and
we came up with a series of requirements
and we wanted something that was easy to
deploy and test different versions of it
and we wanted to of course extract
relevant usage metrics both from the
application itself but also from the
hosts that were running such application
like CPU consumption memory oh that's
that we want to have the ability to
simulate Network constraints and because
ideally we would of course test is on a
real world
scenario we're trying to simulate a p2p
Network with essentially cloud
infrastructure and and of course our own
machines so um we wanted something that
could simulate such a network
constraints and we wanted something that
will we could easily test out on a local
system but also scale as much as we
wanted slash as much as we could given
our budget
and we wanted something that it could be
controlled from a central point sorry we
could instrument it and of course
perform our own experiments and but also
that we can could easily automate and
and by looking to all of these
requirements one thing that pops out is
reproducibility and and if we try to
understand like again from the
requirements and looking at
reproducibility is just essentially and
given the the same the same build the
same constraints and we wanted that we
wanted that for a given input would also
we would always get the same output of
course and or you can look at the
Wikipedia definition which is way better
than mine but historically speaking
reproducibility is usually achieved
through some sort of utilization and
doing about it and more recently of
course lot of people rely on a little a
lot of way of utilization which is
essentially containerization and and
that's what we winded up with and so we
went with docker containers but we want
to we need something that would allow us
to orchestrate and set containers
whether it be locally or again on a
provider and the workers the reference
Orchestrator nowadays of course we need
easy's immense community and all sorts
of projects coming around it and and it
was something also that we already asana
legend so it made perfect sense and and
we relied on Elm to package said
application to package our our
application of course and
and with reproducibility out of the way
and we also took another another one of
our goals out of the way which is
essentially the ability to easily scale
our test bed to a large network and that
can be achieved through companies and
the next step of course is and this is
all the point of this is of course to
extract data and our tests would only be
as good as the data that we were able to
extract and because of it we we needed
something that was able to provide us
with application level data so I'm
specifically about a poster cast we
wanted to know how many subscriptions
that have been fulfilled how many events
have been sent and all of that
information and we want to know of
course also against data so CPU memory
network usage and finally we wanted to
correlate set data and visual in
visualize it and we went with the y6 tax
so essentially elasticsearch to store
all these information log stash to
process these data bits to collect data
and finally Cabana to provide us with
the visualization and the data
correlation part of it and so again with
that out of the way it's time to move to
our next goal which is essentially how
are how will we simulate Network
constraints and even before we actually
looked into communities or docker for
containerization and this was already a
huge concern for so you wanted we want
we really want to check this ability and
and they're like there are a lot of
projects out there that um simulates
some sort of it so a really example of
that a great example of it is meaning it
and then it's kind of sibling projects
which are container net and maxing it
and that allow you to do like a lot but
it's a lot more than what we actually
wanted so over here we you could
simulate our house sorts of an l2
network configuration so if I
and Connect switches connect router x'
all of that we that there was way more
than what we wanted we we essentially
just wanted something that could
simulate network constraints around our
application we didn't really want and
what were the the network configurations
underneath there and given that we're
already in the the community cycle
system if you look at projects around it
we have the network mesh projects it's
easier that allows you to inject some
kind of faults however usually these
faults are focused on the l7 layers so
HTTP layer and and again that's not what
we really needed and so we eventually
came to find a really useful project
which is toxic proxy and by the folks
over at Shopify that is open source and
pcp proxy that is quite thin and allows
you to configure eight a series of
network constraints TCP faults all of
that and network congestion that pretty
lace and and more importantly it also
exposed an HTTP API and so we came up
with what would become our final
essential deployment and and over here
we have essentially a pod so in
communities a pod means the atom of
communities if you were to say and and
over here we have two containers one
acts as a sidecar for the ipfs
deployment and and this is where this is
where the the put circus RPC messages as
well as other ipfs portugal messages
would flow in through and this will be
proxy by proxy proxy and given that both
these containers also expose and an HTTP
api we could then interact with them and
create either faults on the fly or
create some sort of interaction on the
fly again interacting with post castle
directly or interacting with float sub
we or any other of the IP offense
properties essentially and finally of
course we have the the beats to collect
both what the metrics process the log
stash storing like the search and
finally we rely on key banner to
visualize all thing so yeah this is the
the view from if you're considering
multiple given ninis nodes I'll go ahead
and skip this part but if you're
interested just reach out to me
afterwards essentially it just describes
the namespaces that we relied on and how
the whole thing comes together so now we
have a way to simulate Network
constraints and we of course still need
way to control these from a central
point meaning the way to interact with
it and so we created a really small CLI
to that again if you remember correctly
interacts with DC p is the API and the
toxic proxy API so the idea is that this
tool allows us to exact comments inside
execute commands at each of the ipfs
note that we are running also create
toxic so toxics is essentially the name
that proxy proxy gives a certain fault
so latency for example and stuff like
that so yeah let's just go move on to a
really quick demo so I don't know who
was in the last I don't know who was in
the last community code but essentially
so this is actually the exact same demo
I'm just going to focus on the the
testbed this time so essentially over
here locally I have already running five
ipfs deployments essentially and what
I'll be doing next is
telling the logs of each of the
deployments this is running locally and
I'm going to provide an over here on on
how this was running afterwards
and again what we're doing over here is
just essentially from a central point
which is my machine I'm actually
creating a topic on a specific node so
this guy is not one and afterwards I'll
be moving on and interacting with other
nodes so this is the CL light so that I
was telling you about I'm just
interacting interacting with it and
locally and we can we can do all sorts
of things we can actually and not only
run post the COS commands as we're doing
over here but we could also just ping
other nodes or even actually I'm going
to move on to the presentation we could
even execute a series of bulk commands
that have been previously described on
on some sort of file okay and so this is
how we we did the bulk of the work for
our tests that I'm actually going to
describe afterwards so this essentially
covers our whole problem so always how
did we run these in practice so in
practice and we ran a total of actually
five VM so this was to collect the
results from a master Jesus essentially
and each of those two virtual CPUs 16
gigs of ram and we put the LK cluster in
place and and we ran we managed to run a
total of 100 deployments essentially and
the FS deployment that Iran was actually
a fork of the JavaScript a TFS where I
actually include the poster cast but
also trimmed a bit of the fat and so
that we could end up with a wider
version of the TFS that doesn't even
consume that much than many resources in
terms of memory for example and these
are some of the graphs that we collected
and these were actually just you
for control we then actually extracted
data on the on this side and created
graphs afterwards for the actual work
and but yeah
so all of these projects are are else
open source again I love my
Massachusetts work as is open source so
it feel free to check it out and if
you're also curious about poster cast
and you weren't able to attend the last
presentation and also because it was cut
short but the the project saw all of
these all of these projects are also
open source and finally just a huge
thank you for my Jesus advisers live
liking the video and there was another
colleague of mine also working on
another system don't you helped me a lot
and yeah finally
technically schwre and also microsoft
azure for sponsoring the best friends
and and finally twelve you folks that
welcomed me into the ffs only beach
community so thank you very much and
questions thank you god that's really
amazing that you've achieved in such a
short time it's really cool I have a few
questions but I want to open it up to
anyone else if anyone wants to jump in
yeah sure um so I'll just keep my
sharing my screen you might be useful I
don't know
let me ask so you you this testbed works
specifically with JSI PFS javascript
black DFS and I'm wondering does it work
with Co ipfs as well or so directly it
doesn't um so out of the box it doesn't
essentially um it is possible to make it
work it wouldn't take that much of a
deal so essentially I'm just going to
quickly show you just for some context
unless you're short on time so again
we're using Elm to package if you
remember correctly listed on your using
alpha package our application and and
what this is sound I don't know if
everyone is familiar with um but it
essentially allows us to package the
whole of these resources into a single
essentially a single deployment or a
single release better set and and over
here we're using JSP ifs but um this is
essentially a matter of like New Jersey
proxy okay so over here we have the
manifest for the our deployment or Jessa
defense deployment and changing this
would be a matter of just changing the
image that is being used and it can
actually provide it through
configuration and and essentially
changing these ports because I do
believe that the alignment on go ipfs
runs on different set of ports but that
that would be basically the the grass
for the change that they need to take
place it's it's relatively easy to again
use other things other than Jessica is
very cool any other questions
the drought could you give us like just
like a 1 minute overview of pulsar cost
and what that was about
yeah sure so give me just
[Music]
okay cool so really really brief
presentation essentially but
so the the the reasoning for poster cast
came essentially out of the usefulness
that that we have for observe and the
dependency that that pops up is for a
lot of applications especially in
distributed system realm of course
however there seem to be so I already
seem to be a clear lack of and in fact
let me skip all of this okay so
essentially this is there seems to be a
clear lack of focus of applications that
in the peer to peer realm that focus on
things that are usually associated with
centralized applications and so usually
if you're relying on some kind of
message hearing system or something like
that on this first centralized
application you have a series of things
such as delivery guarantees and and
we're going to see that your data is
then it's persistent
things that aren't usually associated
with in the PGP realm where you have
like a lot of pops of solutions that
focus essentially either on real-time
communication or don't provide the same
kind of guarantees that you usually
haven't centralized
realm so this is why we came with with
all circles so poster casts is a topic
based observe and module and that was
actually implemented on on top of the
PGP that focus on data persistency event
will deliver guarantees and ni
scalability and so over here is like
this essentially over inside of it and
at the heart of it we relied on the
concept that super similar type FS which
is in the Merkel deck and and the way we
went about it is we have these two core
resources the topic descriptor in the
event descriptor and and these resources
link between each other so event
descriptors actually link to the topic
they refer to and every festival
descriptors on the event stream and
topic descriptors point to a previous
version of said topic and also other
subtopics if it's relevant for them to
actually point to other subtopics and so
the idea is that through these link of
messages and you're able to solve you're
able to resolve these marker links up to
a point where you may have a missing
messenger or you weren't actually even
part of the network at the time so
you're able to reach out to the network
and say you know what I don't have these
even the Scriptures could someone
provide it so it ends up working more as
an EXO you're not even acknowledging
that you haven't received the content
you should have and so just like the the
the brief overview design of the whole
thing is this the message is rallying
together and the message is also linked
to the topics and the topics linked to a
previous version of said topic
descriptors so because we're dealing
with the immutable content and if you
have the topic foo and you wanted to
change something like for example I the
new subtopic you would need to create a
new topic this critter but then you
could point to the previous one so
essentially this gives you like a nice
history of said topic and and finally
have the sub topic links if if the topic
makes if the top it makes you mandatory
of course and underneath we relied on
the the Kadima tht provided by the PTP
and to help us create the dissemination
trees and that we then used to designate
content for each of the topics i think
that essentially gives like an overview
as for results we were able to actually
achieve a 99% of subscription for
payment rate essentially the
human traits tells us for the for the
amount of subscribers we have to topic
how many of them although subscribers
were able to were able to receive the
content they were subscribed to and
compared to for example floods I don't
have the results over here actually yeah
sorry I don't have the results for
floods over here but the results were
quite lower and the way we tested was
actually with a an open source data set
of Reddit comments from 2007 a sample of
approximately 225 thousand comments and
again running on the test bed that we
previously described this is a
distribution of comments so this is like
the five minute overview of the whole
thing you probably super confused but
again if you have any questions just
feel free to reach out to me directly
that was a very impressive how much you
got into five minutes and it was
actually very easy thank you I think
it's because of the practice at this
time so we have three minutes left is
this Aaron have any more questions so I
guess could you talk a little bit about
how like tie the two together how you
use test bed with pulsar cows what were
you were you testing exactly or changing
about the environment oh cool yeah right
so I don't know if you have any
information over here actually I thought
I am okay so for the okay for did for
for the whole for the purpose of the
whole experiment what we learned about
was we created essentially three
different experiments so poster casts
one of the things that I've actually
told these because this company is
immutable so the topic descriptor
actually allows us to have add some kind
of configuration in it and and we can
use this configuration to actually tell
how do we want these messages to be
linked so you're able
actually enforce a set of fun properties
such as if you want to leave a grantee
or the delivery guarantee you can do it
so again by configuring set topic so and
we went about with three different
experiments so one was flat sub the
other one was pulsar cast without order
going to be four messages and the other
one was pasta cast with order grantee
for messages all of these ran under
normal Network conditions and with 500
milliseconds of network latency and 300
milliseconds of jitter so to simulate
again and abnormal Network constraints
and the the in terms of results so again
for pasta cast without order guarantee
and we had a we we passed with flying
colors for pasta cast with all the green
key
we actually struck the limits of our
test that essentially community started
shutting down a couple of nodes due to
either memory usage or CPU usage and
however even still compared to floods we
perform better and providing a better
quality of service of course and and the
way we brought everything together was
actually true these tests are noise
which is actually also open sourced and
essentially just another CLI tool that
from a data set actually runs a set of
DFS this bad CLI commands so we were
able to you jest data both in a book
format process it and then measure the
results really cool awesome job well
we're we're just about out of time but
thank you so much it's a really really
interesting and really clear
presentation I appreciate you joining
yesterday and thank you to everyone else
who joined the call this is machine
thank you Joe
there's been the ipfs weekly community
call and hopefully we'll see you all
next week thank you thank you